---
title: Subaru Legacy (2001)
type: car
weight: 10
---
# Subaru Legacy (2001)

## One of the Forever Cars

Little did I know that when I first got the car...

### Throwback
From the beginning of looking at cars (even before moving to NZ), I was looking into cars and engines as I knew nothing about them. I was particularly interested in the Nissan Z series and cars with twin turbo. I was very fascinated with the turbo setup - even more so with the twin-turbo setup. I really wanted to have a Subaru Legacy Twin Turbo (Rev C) version (the last version with twin turbo). I knew nothing about cars and also had no money to buy a good Legacy. I kept talking to people, joining Subaru forums and searching relentlessly for one that would come cheap - about 2k NZD.

Meanwhile, I participated in a hackathon-like event where I got $1000 as prize money. I kept it towards buying the car. One day while searching TradeMe, I found an ad listed for a car at 2700 NZD. I called that person up - a very cool British lady - and negotiated the price to 2500 NZD. This was very cheap for the car considering it did not have any issues (it did not run because it had no battery). Because it was cheap, I decided to buy it and then went to the place to collect the car. All it needed was a battery and I should have gone with one. Instead, because the car hasn't been run in a long time, everything was seized up. Also, jump-starting didn't work. I should have actually gone with a good battery. But I again knew nothing about batteries or what kind of battery size/power is needed.

So I asked my good friend and flatmate Han to come and help fetch this car. He did not have a NZ license and was not comfortable driving on the left side of the road (he is from China) but I told him it's just a few kms and we will not take the highway. So I took my little Integra and bought a tow cable from Warehouse and went to collect the car. The car was not turning on, so we decided to tow the car. And because it was showing much less time to go through the highway than through the small roads, I took the highway without telling Han. Poor guy had no choice as he was driving in the Legacy behind (which had no power - which means no power brakes or power steering). I can only imagine how hard it was for him to manage this. We were already friends but became brothers after this and we got him a car shortly after.

Anyway, halfway we went to a SuperCheap Auto and bought a new battery for the car. Then fiddling around the car for a while, it finally started and the gearbox was stuck for a while. Reverse gear came to life first and then rest of the gears followed. That drive back home from SuperCheap Auto I could experience the turbos coming to life and that got me hooked! The car needed so much love and care. The windscreen had a crack, the timing belt needed to be changed, all fluids needed change, tyres weren't that great. Music system did not work etc.

I did not have a garage but my good friend Amit did and he didn't have a car. Perfect. I moved the car to his place and the restoration journey began.

### The Restoration
This was the biggest project I have undertaken to that day. I have only one oil change experience under my belt. I knew nothing else. I printed out all the car manuals that I could find on Legacy which were in English and some I translated into English from Japanese. The following two weeks, I did nothing but read and watch YouTube videos. If there was something to be known about maintaining a second-gen Legacy, chances are I read it.

On realizing that the cam belt service is long overdue, I planned out the way to do all of that by myself. I knew this was going to be tough, but I had made up my mind. I bought all the required components and used every last penny I had - I didn't know how I will eat the next week, but I had the car parts. I started slowly, removing screws and labeling them meticulously. I torqued anything that needed and tested it 3 times to make sure it was the right torque setting.

### Acts of Kindness
In this process, there was an incident that had a huge impact on my life. I grew up in India, people were nice but I was never used to strangers being super kind like how people are in NZ. There was a point in putting the cam belt on, I needed to secure the camshafts in place. But a special tool that Subaru makes was needed. This tool was very expensive and I could not afford it. I was stuck. Searching and posting online did not help - all of them said I need the tool. So I decided to go to a workshop and ask to borrow the tool and pay a price for renting or asking for help.

I went to "Stubaru", a Subaru specialist in Christchurch. He and his wife run the shop. His wife came out and he later patiently explained to me that I don't actually need this tool, but I can get one for $100 from a shop nearby that will do the trick. He even gave a note for me. I went with that to the shop, got the tool, came back and that did work! This act of kindness to someone that they didn't know had a huge impact on my life. I try to be that person whenever someone comes to me for help. Stu from Stubaru doesn't know this, but he made a huge impact on my life. Incidents like this have happened many times since in NZ and having travelled decently well I can say that the most kindest people live down under in Aotearoa.

### First Drive
Anyway, the car was done and I remember the first time I keyed in the ignition. I had to disable the fuel pump so that I could prime the engine and then when I connected the pump, it fired up right away and that drive to the fuel station was spectacular. I have never driven something that has so much power and character and I loved it so much. I couldn't believe that all those things I did in fact did work!

The next day I decided to take the car out for a drive - at night. I did not drive the car before because it did not have a Warrant of Fitness and registration. I took it for a drive at night so that cops wouldn't be around as much. On an empty patch, I floored the car and felt how the turbos spooled up and I was going 180 fairly quickly. Never in my life have I gone that fast - I was super happy and grinning ear to ear on that drive back home. All the moments laid the foundation for the next projects to come.

Later on I got the windshield replaced and it passed a warrant after some other minor fixes. The car was part of many adventures, I took it to most places in South Island, installed boost gauges and different blow-off valves to get that "stuu tuuu" sounds. Exhaust was replaced. I started buying many of the same cars later on in the coming months when I finally had some money and I would swap out the interesting bits I find on those to here.

### Break-in Incident
Subaru Legacy is one of the most stolen vehicles in NZ. Because it is unassuming, has enough power to get away from police and most importantly is super easy to steal. I knew the danger when I got one, but didn't think it would happen until it happens to you. Some thieves have been looking out for the car for a while, they studied my usual patterns of working at the lab. I go home in the evening for dinner and then come and work late nights during the winter months.

One day - I came in at my usual time, but I wasn't feeling well, so about 10 mins into coming to the lab, I decided to go back home. I went to the car park and there were some components lying next to the car and the car door was unlocked. I was wondering what is going on and then when I entered the car, I could see that the ignition barrel is fully smashed and a lot of wires have been cut. The car had an alarm system which was highly rated but somehow they were able to break in. What probably saved the car from being stolen is that there is a safety switch under the clutch which is only triggered on very hard press of the clutch. They might have missed this and tried rewiring a lot of things. I called my friends in the lab, and we towed the disabled car to my house. In the coming days, I went to Pick-A-Part to get parts for the car and found how to take out the ignition barrel from a car (chiseling away on the safety screw is a lot of hard work). Then rewired the wiring that was damaged and got the car running.

### Trip with Parents
My family visited me in Christchurch and we had an epic trip. This was one of the many, but being able to do that with family and give them experiences that was so different was a big deal. We went from Christchurch to Queenstown through the beautiful Taupo Lake, stayed in Arrowtown and Queenstown, and went to Milford Sound. On the way back we came through Dunedin. During the many months it was a family car, a camper, beach car, fishing vehicle, tow, roadside assist for buddies. The car took up so many roles as it was the main player.

### Life in Wellington
Later in 2018, I had to move to Wellington for work. I was working with the Te Papa Museum (national museum of NZ) and it was a contract job and as soon as it finished I was out of income. I tried applying for a few jobs, but that didn't go anywhere and as I needed to have money, I was working multiple jobs and one of that was at PlaceMakers. It was enough to pay off my debts. But before I got that gig, there was a time when I had no money and was struggling a lot - even at the peak of starvation, I did not sell the car. I was hoping that this would pass and I would be able to keep the car. This is when it got the BBS wheels that I always wanted. Changes made are every once in a while when I can afford it.

### Stashing the Car Back in Christchurch
During my time in Wellington, I got an offer to do a PhD with the father of Virtual Reality - Mark Billinghurst. It was an opportunity of a lifetime and I took it! I was so broke and couldn't afford to have a car in Auckland. So my friend said I could park the car at their place in Christchurch while I sort out things. Which is what I did. I drove down the car to Christchurch and kept it there. I flew to Auckland, life got busy and the Legacy stayed in the South Island for about a year with me visiting once to just start the car and move it around. There was another break-in attempt at this time as well, but they only took the boost gauge when they broke in. No other damages.

### Moving to Auckland
Right after Covid, I was able to finally move the car from Christchurch to Auckland. By this time there were about 11 cars at our place at any given time and the neighbours were wondering what our real jobs are. I was using the car as the daily driver, we had many good memories, lots of late-night drives, going to car meetups and generally just enjoying life. First time able to afford Pirelli tyres - used ones. Now as the car was being used regularly, and I did not have the means to keep up the maintenance that the car needed, occasionally I would skip on service. There was some sound coming from the gearbox in certain times and I could feel the binding at times. Did not do the inspection as the saying goes, "why fix something that is not broken". This would lead to one of my greatest stories yet.

### Epic Breakdown
I finished my PYR - which is one of the milestones in PhD in NZ, where you present your work and a committee has to approve it for you to continue with your PhD. As this was done, just like my usual self I decided that I need to go on holiday to celebrate this. It was supposed to be a short trip - one day at the beach, then to my fav spot in NZ for camping (Rotorua place), there to Tauranga and back. It went well until Rotorua, I was babying the car whenever I felt the binding. On retrospection, it could have been the front differential that was out of fluid.

On my way to Tauranga from Rotorua, I chose the log trucking route instead of the normal route (because I saw a camper van with the slogan "chose the scenic route, especially when lost" or something like that). That was a nice drive until I forgot that I need to baby the car instead of driving fast. There was a low area in a curve where the differential gave up with a loud burst and we lost all power to move. I pulled the car to the side and I couldn't do anything other than open the hood and put the hazards. Log trucks that were coming behind me in my lane had very little time to react and they were narrowly missing the car (they cannot stop as they are heavy vehicles).

As I was stuck, a group of Maori who did not even speak a word of English were passing by on the other lane and took a u-turn and came for help. As soon as they came, I took out my tow rope and attached it to their vehicle which was an SUV. They understood the assignment and towed me to the top region where there was a shoulder on the road to park in safety. They were very kind and though we could not communicate much, they gave the most help I needed. Now I can find a way to get help. They said their goodbyes and left.

There was no signal in this region, so I had to climb the nearby mountain to get the signal range and then called Reza to get help. I WhatsApped him my GPS coordinates and asked him to pass this on to Mohsen who is our tow truck guy. Later I climbed the mountain again and called Reza and he said the message has been passed on and Mohsen will come. The whole incident happened around 11 am in the morning, and I had food and water in the car. Mohsen needs 5 hours to come to me and I waited as I had my books and food. During this time, many people came asking if I needed anything - food, water or lift to the nearest town. Even cops came and relayed the message to their own so that they know I'm stranded here. Mohsen arrived around 8 pm in the evening and we loaded up the car into the truck and started our journey back to Auckland. This is a man who drove 10 hours so that I can be home - and he didn't even accept any money (don't worry I paid him later). The amount of kindness is unbelievable in people. This is a something that I kept finding over and over in many many instances in NZ. Mohsen is an absolute legend.

### Keeping the Car in Storage
As my PhD was concluding, I decided that I would move out of NZ and go and see the world. I sold every single thing I owned - remember I had engine cranes, stands, multiple copies of most tools, compressors, spare engines etc. The only thing I chose to keep is the Legacy. I found a place out in Hamilton which is about an hour away from Auckland. I cleaned up the car and with lots of sadness took it to Mohsen's house and we loaded up the car in the truck and drove it to where it sits now. Saying goodbye is always very hard - especially when you don't know about the future and how long until you meet again. This is where the car sits as of now. There was a bit of underbody rust starting to develop and I hope it doesn't go very bad. All I can hope is that I make enough money so that I can ship it to the country I'm in and restore it to the former glory and once again be my daily.

### What is in for the Future?
Future plans are always a mystery. What I would love is to be able to move to the US someday and have my company based there and get the car imported and registered under the vintage cars rule. It will qualify for this in 2026 as the car is a 2001 model year (assuming 2001 based on title, user text said 2021 model year for 2026 vintage which implies 2001). Plans of upgradation would be full strip, sandblast and repaint (either the same color or grey). Get a Rev C body kit, build up the engine, keep the twin-turbo setup and make around 450hp reliably. What I really liked to begin with is the twin-turbo setup with its "valley of death" (when the turbos are switching). I want to keep all those characters as it is.
